hi it's Renata pol here today I'd like
to share with you four tips for creating
your stained glass pattern I'm at at the
Fine Arts Building at Granville campus
in Corner Brook so this is a perfect
opportunity for me to be surrounded by
Fine Arts and I'd like to share with you
a few tips from artists to you the first
tip for designing your stained glass
pattern is to choose a unique subject
matter something that is actually pretty
meaningful to you it can be a little
tempting to fulfill the wants of your
family and friends and to create pieces
that you think they might like or to
create things that you think might be
popular but ultimately you have to
please yourself because that's going to
be the fuel to get you through the
stained glass process so the very first
thing you need to think about is do I
really love what I'm doing and that
inspiration can come from absolutely
anywhere but the most important thing is
that it absolutely matters to you the
second tip is to use art and design
principles in your stained glass let's
go through those one by one
are the lines in your pattern crisp
geometry straight lines circles or are
they more organic shapes these are
things to consider also you can think
about the width of your lines now
generally speaking as a beginner you
want your lines your LED lines to have
an evenness in width but as you get more
advanced you might want to play with
that a second principle to consider is
negative and positive space remember for
each line like that you've got this side
as well as this side so think about both
sides of the line a third principle to
consider is rhythm so is there a
repetition of color of shape you can
kind of consider music and think about
is there a repeated sort of pattern and
is that repetition interrupted with
something that's going to give you
rhythm in your piece one of the most
obvious considerations of an art and
design principle is color so you might
want to think about your color
composition one way you could think
about it is maybe you want to make a
piece of monochromatic so it's all sort
of one color but liar shades of the same
color so you've got light blues medium
blues darker blues all together in one
piece that's one possibility
another possibility might be using a
color system such as a complementary
system so for example you could use
really red orange hot red oranges next
to really cold icy blue greens and that
way you're actually bringing in color
temperature as well into your
composition another principle is scale
you want to think about the gravity of
say something really big next to
something small so you might want to
play with different sizes of the same
shape for example you could have large
squares next to release small squares or
large circles next to small circles
another principle you can consider is
the idea of direction so do the lines in
your piece point in a certain direction
do they have a horizontal feel and that
means they're either stable or they have
some weight or do they have a certain
dynamism remember diagonal lines are the
most exciting and most dynamic so you
want to consider those ideas when you're
creating your pattern finally you might
also want to consider contrast you can
apply this principle to all the other
principles
so think about contrasting colors also
contrasting textures contrasting
patterns but getting some variation in
your piece putting one piece next to
another what does that say about each
other if I put a black piece next to a
bright orange piece it's going to really
make the orange pop if I put an orange
next to a yellow maybe they're more in
harmony with each other and it's more
subtle piece a third tip for creating
stained-glass patterns is to consider
the limitations of the glass itself
you're going to want to stay away from L
shapes because they'll want to break
along the curve so it's best to avoid
those when you're creating a pattern as
well you might want to consider the idea
of the whole structure of the piece so
when you're creating your solder lines
think about them supporting and leading
up to all four edges if you're doing a
square frame you're going to want to
have that support so the lines
themselves will actually be joining the
framing lines and that will give extra
support to the piece finally you might
want to also consider the steepness of
each curve so if you are designing
patterns with a real steep u-shape think
about how difficult that's going to be
to cut out and whether or not you're
able to do it is your skill level up to
it yeah and also are you willing to
spend that extra grinding time
finally tip number four you want to
consider the limitations of your own
time and tools so first of all you don't
want to create a piece or a pattern that
you're going to give up on halfway
through because it's so complicated and
so time-consuming so create something
that is realistically within your own
time budget and also think about the
limitations of your tools if you are
designing a piece that has again those
very small curves or small circles have
a think about whether or not you have
the grinder bits to be able to deal with
that or whether or not the type of glass
you have is up to the job so these are
kind of considerations that you want to
add on in addition to all those other
considerations and this is the practical
stuff that's really going to ground you
and get the piece done these tips are
coming to you right from a fine arts
building today so I hope they help you
to create your wonderful pattern that's
going to lead to a piece that's moving
from a mere Sun catcher to a work of art
Thanks have a sparkling day
you